all right let's bring you some news just
coming into to us here now our cameraman
in Gaza samur abua has died our
cameraman in Al Al jazer cameraman in
Gaza who was wounded earlier on few
hours ago in an Israeli strike has now
died Samar Abu Daka was operating as an
Al jazer cameraman in Gaza throughout
this conf conflict he was working today
with another colleague who was also
wounded in that same attack they were
covering an earlier Israeli strike on a
school when they themselves fell victim
to another Israeli strike initially
samur was wounded paramedics could not
reach him Reports say the shelling was
so
intense well they time they managed to
get paramedics to try and head out on
the road to reach him we understand the
rubble blocking the road prevented them
from reaching him well Al jazer has
released a statement on the attack it
says the network strongly condemns the
Israeli attack that
wounded alaz Arabic correspondent and
Sam Abu Daka the Channel's cameraman
during their coverage of the bombing of
the farana school in Khan Unis on Friday
December the 15th
2023 managed to reach a nearby hospital
for treatment for his injuries however
ambulance teams were prevented by
occupation forces in rescuing Sam Abu
Daka who along with several others were
trapped in the school due to ongoing
bombings Al jazer holds the Israeli
occupation forces fully accountable for
Sam's safe safety deeming this incident
a deliberate attempt to Target its
correspondents and their families in the
Gaza Strip well obviously following uh
that statement we have now found out
that in fact the sad news that Sam Abu
Daka the cameraman who we were hoping
would be able to pull through this until
he could be rescued has in fact passed
away let's bring in Yousef bandel
professor of political science in
international relations at Qatar
University in Yousef very disturbing
news the first Al jazer journalist to be
killed of course there were four others
who lost family members in Israeli
strikes so this is the first time in
aljer journalist himself has been killed
by an Israeli strike in Gaza this just
underscores the difficulty the
challenges the risk of life to work as a
journalist or or even just to
survive well I think uh journalists in
Gaza are working under the most
extreme uh conditions of journalists and
also medical uh staff it must be uh
stressed obviously the uh killing of
this Al jazer uh caman is a very big
blow to the truth it's an attack on
freedom of uh speech and it's not tactic
by the Israelis to make sure that only
one narrative reaches the outside world
obviously even though it's the first
alaz journalist who was killed in Gaza
let's not forget Shirin abua who also an
Al jaaz journalist who was killed maybe
a couple of years ago by an Israeli uh
sniper so it's not it's not the first
time that uh Al jazer journalists have
been uh targeted in these kinds of
conflict we can go all go back uh also
to the invasion of Iraq when Al jaaz
offices in Baghdad were targeted by the
Americans
and we
know that following his
injury that there were attempts there
was a a desire and even an attempt for
paramedics to try and reach him but they
simply couldn't because the shelling
just continued it
underscores the the nature of this
conflict which offers very little
respite or Mercy to Injured people well
this is a noal testimony to the
Relentless efforts by the Israelis to go
and uh achieve those three targets that
Benyamin Netanyahu has outlined and Al
also chose Israel's contempt and
complete this disal to international law
and to inter to uh the rules governing
uh Wars obviously the paramedics tried
to do whatever they could but they could
not get into him because of a the
rubbles on the streets and also the
heavy uh shelling on that particular
area let's hope
that recovers from his injuries he was
lucky that he would got into hospital
and let's hope he recovers from his
injuries and I'm sure that he gives back
to doing what he does best report in
those other cities yes we have to also
point out
that the cameraman sorry the reporter he
was also injured in this tack although
he was able as you said to to reach
First Responders was able to reach him
and and take him for treatment in some
kind of facility there so we do hope
that he recovers as well how disturbing
is it when you listen to some of the
people in that area who say it was the
result of a drone attack and a drone a
fairly sophisticated and precise piece
of technology well I heard last week
that uh Israel has been using some in
intelligent uh bombs I I mean it's very
very difficult to call uh a drone
intelligent given the population density
in Gaza they have moved people from the
north to the south of Gaza and now
they're bombing this very very high uh
density areas in Gaza and no matter how
intelligent precise these partic drones
they will always uh result in huge uh
casualties and today the journalists of
Al jazer are just a proof of this
indiscriminate
um um attacks and the not so intelligent
drones that are being used all right
thank you very much Yousef bandel let's
continue this now though with our
correspondent in Gaza abum he joins us
from RA in the south of the strip so T
the sad news of Al jazer cameraman Sam
abaka killed in that strike earlier
today what details can you tell us
yes uh Sammy uh we first would like to
send our condolences to the family of
our colleague Sam abua who had been
killed after sustained to his wound uh
after being left for hours bleeding on
the ground of khuna city as he was
reporting and uh uh filming all the
latest Israeli air strikes that had
destroyed life in Kanan yunes a city
alongside with uh our colleague who has
been uh minorly injured uh by an Israeli
military drone strike uh that hit the
vicinity of farana uh School in the uh
in the Eastern areas of kanun uh may he
rest in peace as we know samur as a
professional cameraman who had devoted
his life in reporting and filming uh the
suffering of Palestinian people and the
how much they are feeling despair uh
desperate and uh feeling completely
frustr frustrated as the Israeli a
strikes had completely changed the way
that they are living uh I used
personally to share uh time and night
with samur alongside with the Arabic uh
with Al jaer Arabic team and he was
telling me about his plans that he want
to be reunited again with his family who
are uh living in Belgium appro uh he
just was showing me the pictures and the
images of his sons and uh his family m
members just to tell me that how much he
mess uh them and he just planning to uh
reunite and travel to Belgium in order
to uh meet them again now Sam has left
our world and he won't be again reunited
with his family members as he was one of
the uh uh important prominent figures of
uh filming all the Palestinian misery as
Israeli forces had uh expanded their
attacks acrus Gaza samur was uh very
professional his work de devoted and
dedicated he just insisted on keep uh
filming and uh keep uh recording
everything that is happening on the
ground once a time I've asked him
personally like uh are are not you
getting tired Sam he told me that this
is our job we need to complete uh
filming we need to show how people are
suffering this is a message that must be
sent to the International Community
samur has been killed as he was doing
and Reporting his message to the World
on on the ground as Israel had
deliberately targeted uh journalists
across the territory where dozens of
Palestinian journalists have been killed
since the early beginning of this round
of fighting uh now s now is in a better
place may his saw rest in peace as the
truth won't be will continue to be
reported from the ground here inside the
Gaza trip t just talk us through this
commitment that we're seeing from
journalists from Al jazer
journalist that drives them to go on
working showing the world what happened
you mentioned the words there of Sam Abu
similar words were uttered by an Sharif
after he lost his father when he said
I'll continue to cover what's unfolding
similar statements
from the reporter who is also wounded
today when a few weeks ago he lost his
family members and was back on air
almost uh immediately to continue
covering the story what keeps people
driven and committed to their
professional responsibilities despite
the immense pain and suffering that they
must be going through all of
you yes uh Samy simply uh that's because
Palestinians had completely uh suffered
all shapes of pain and all kinds of
misery as Israeli forces did not let
anything just back to do against
Palestinians they have destroyed the
houses forced them to leave it behind
they destroyed the memories their dreams
and they only wanted to let the world
know what is happening on the ground
inside Gaza as no one uh till now had uh
been uh showing the exact reality just
except few media outlets and then jazer
is one of the most prominent media
Outlets inside the territory who are
which is still reporting what is the
latest on the ground and those people as
as you mentioned s
and a number of our colleagues who had
been whose whose family had been
directly targeted by the occupation
forces they they just put their pains
aside and they they returned to their
commitment and their professionalism in
terms of reporting all the suffering of
Palestinians people on the ground people
inide Gaza want us to keep reporting to
tell the world how they are feeling with
every single time we went we go to
different locations for reporting and
for uh filming people start telling us
please send our voice to the world we
want the International Community to hear
and to listen what we are suffering on
the ground we need to them to take a
look on the reality that how that how
Palestinians are trying to cope with the
situation after Israel had completely
destroyed everything left for them as
right now they are living in makf tent
and they are forced to uh to to live and
to survive um these imparable uh
situation and circumstances now those
people are really her and as they are
they are trying to complete the
commitment as what our colleague had
done before he he pred his family
members he returned back again at the
front of the camera to keep reporting
now he had been injured and I'm
absolutely sure that he will return back
again and twice as he had uh uh as he's
still alive to keep reporting and to
tell the world what he was uh suffering
and experiencing as the Israeli attacks
on the ter
do not differentiate between a militant
and
civilian and I know TK that you've
worked with samur just talk to us a
little bit about you've mentioned his
professional professionalism but talk to
us a little bit about what it was like
to work with him as a
person um samur was a close friend of
mine since I started work to work with
Al jazer team uh he was uh very close to
me we were sharing food drink together
at night uh sometimes he just came to me
searching where s can I need him just Hy
us what would you like to have for
dinner he he was so close person as he
was just all all the time ask me about
my family members how I feel uh like uh
what is the new uh new updates on the
ground he he was really a brother before
he was a colleague right now uh samur
has left us alone uh we just uh I
remember when when the first moment I've
heard uh the news of his death I I
immediately retrospect all words that
had been released and had been told by
uh Sam for me uh regarding uh the
support regarding uh asking about my
family uh and also regarding any kind of
my favorite drinks and food in order to
afford for me because he is uh one of
the uh members who because his family
members are residing in Kan I I clearly
remember the nights that I've spent with
him under the rain uh where he was uh
just sit next to me we are sharing we
were sharing uh drinks together he was
literally a very professional even human
being who was uh very passionate and uh
very uh uh ambitious he was only uh
planning just to reunite with his family
uh members after the war because he had
been uh he he was forced to evacuate
them from the territory and they were
and he was in daily contact with him
sometimes he was showing me like the
photos and the images of his kids
telling me that this is his Elder son
and this is the youngest one this is the
prettiest he was sharing me his uh
personal issues his problems sometimes
when he gets annoyed now samary is a
better place where he won't be annoyed
again and pic I want you to talk to me
now on a human level about what these
constant losses of colleagues and
colleagues families does to you as you
have to try and focus on being a
journalist but at the same time to
survive as a human being because I think
the loss of samon underlines the
threat to to you as well as all of our
team members operating there in
Gaza well uh honestly Sammy uh uh the
the the the repeated incidents of
killing and death of our beloved ones
personally affects on us but we've been
trained in order to be uh an order to
Casting our emotions aside in terms of
work as we need to keep reporting and
informing the International Community
and the world outside about what is
happening on the ground uh when we just
uh when we switch off the camera and we
just take aside uh here the the real
Bane starts where we just try to recall
all all past memories uh we we just
remember all good days together and we
start putting ourselves in the shoes of
Samar and other journalists who had been
killed or who had lost their family
members about how they were able to uh
continue reporting Amed uh these
conditions Amed the very desperate pain
inside their chests uh regarding the uh
the the loss of their family members but
meanwhile they just talk their decision
to keep reporting and this is what we
have been trained on uh since uh the uh
uh since our work start of work in this
field that uh emotions must be aside as
we need to keep reporting and keep
putting the world uh uh with the latest
updates regarding the Israeli strikes on
the ground now uh the majority of
journalists in in Gaza started to
believe that there is no any impunity
had been uh uh granted for them but this
is a matter of fact that we need to keep
uh reporting and to keep uh telling the
world the real story uh inside Gaza uh
and people here in the territory after
all kinds of bains and losses that they
have endured they deserve to be uh they
deserve that their voice must be
delivered and heared uh across uh the uh
around the globe as this is the main
mission and the main responsibility uh
that come in uh as the first the
priority for reporters and
correspondents on the ground to tell the
world about and this is what we are
doing and uh as much as losses as many
as losses as we can uh have within the
coming days we don't know who's the next
uh we should keep reporting and uh
personal emotions must be casted aside
in order to let the world know about our
suffering on the ground of course we
believe that these kinds of incidents
are not easy to be uh endured but we are
trying to coup and with the situation in
order to keep giving power for others
who are surrounding us uh uh to be able
uh to stand uh strong and to enhance the
resilience uh as the circumstances
around us are devastating and uh if we
are surrendered or if we have been
psychologically broken down uh uh no one
would hear or uh let's say full anything
regarding the situation on the ground
inside the territory but this is our job
this is our responsibility to let the
world and to let the Palestinian voice
heared around the
globe all right TK stay with us I'm just
going to point out to viewers we're
looking at pictures of family members
who came to identify and receive the
body of our colleague samur Abu Daka the
aler cameraman who's been killed by an
Israeli strike we've obviously blurred
out the picture of his body there uh for
obvious reasons and we're we're seeing
quite intense scenes I understand that's
his
mother uh state of obvious State of
Shock and grief that many Palestinians
are feeling as they lose their loved
ones